In 3D computer graphics, we use matrices to compactly describe geometric transformations such as scaling, rotation, and
translation, and also to change the coordinates of a point or vector from one frame to another.

An m x n matrix M is a rectangular array of real numbers with m rows and n columns. The product of the number of rows and
columns gives the dimensions of the matrix. The numbers in a matrix are called elements or entries. We identify a matrix
element by specifying the row and column of the element using a double subscript notation Mij, where the first subscript
identifies the row and the second subscript identifies the column. 

The matrices u and v are special matrices in the sense that they contain a single row or column, respectively. We sometimes
call these kinds of matrices row vectors or column vectors because they are used to represent a vector in matrix form (e.g.,
we can freely interchange the vector notations (x, y, z) and [x, y, z]).

1. Two matrices are equal if and only if their corresponding elements are equal; as such, two matrices must have the same
number of rows and columns in order to be compared.

2. We add two matrices by adding their corresponding elements; as such, it only makes sense to add matrices that the same
number of rows and columns.

3. We multiply a scalar and a matrix by multiplying the scalar with every element in the matrix.

4. We define subtraction in terms of matrix addition and scalar multiplication. That is, A - B = A + (-1 x B) = A + (-B).

Because addition and scalar multiplication is done element-wise, matrices essentially inherit the following addition and
scalar multiplication properties from real numbers:

1. A + B = B + A - Commutative law of addition
2. (A + B) + C = A + (B + C) - Associative law of addition
3. r(A + B) = rA + rB - Scalar distribution over matrices
4. (r + s)A = rA + sA - Matrix distribution over scalars

If A is a m x n matrix and B is a n x p matrix, then the product AB is defined and is a m x p matrix C, where the ijth entry
of the product C is given by taking the dot product of the ith row vector in A with the jth column vector in B, that is,
Cij = A  i,*  x B *,j (equation 2.1) (x means times/multiply by).

So note that in order for the matrix product AB to be defined, we require that the number of columns in A equal the number of
rows in B, which is to say, we require that the dimension of the row vectors in A equal the dimension of the column vectors in
B. If these dimensions did not match, then the dot product in Equation 2.1 would not make sense.

The product AB is not defined since the row vectors in A have dimension 2 and the column vectors in B have dimension 3. In
particular, we cannot take the dot product of the first row vector in A with the first column vector in B because we cannot
take the dot product of a 2D vector with a 3D vector.

We first point out that the product AB is defined (and is a 2 x 3 matrix) because the number of columns of A equals the number
of rows of B. Observe that the product BA is not defined because the number of columns in B does not equal the number of rows
in A. This demonstrates that, in general, matrix multiplication is not commutative; that is, AB != BA.

The transpose of a matrix is found by interchanging the rows and columns of the matrix. Thus the transpose of an m x n matrix
is an n x m matrix. We denote the transpose of a matrix M as MT.

The identity matrix is a square matrix that has zeros for all elements except along the main diagonal; the elements along the
main diagonal are all ones. (e.g. 1, 0 (first row), 0, 1 (second row))

The determinant is a special function which inputs a square matrix and outputs a real number. The determinant of a square
matrix A is commonly denoted by det A.

Given an n x n matrix A, the minor matrix Aij is the (n-1) x (n-1) matrix found by deleting the ith row and jth column of A.

